Minimum RTO for a single AZ outage
In this project , the database is configured as multi-AZ . Hence whenever an AZ which runs the database fails, automatic failover will take place. To find out the minimum RTO for such outage, I have performed reboot of the DB with failover and measured the time it took to be active on other AZ. It is seen that the minimum RTO was 1 minute 53 seconds. However , in real world scenario, it takes a few minutes for AWS to know that something has happened in the AWS region or availability zone, hence after that, it starts routing traffic to the backup. This time also must be taken into consideration. Assuming , that value is 5 minutes. Total RTO will be 6 minute 53 seconds.
Minimum RTO for a single region outage
In case of a single region outage, there is a read replica database configured in standby region. Read replica database can be promoted in place of master database. This will need to be done manually . To find out the minimum RTO for such outage, I have promoted the read replica and it is measured that it took 5 minutes. In real world scenario, it will take some time to make necessary configuration changes to use read replica as Production. For example , we might receive alert after 5 minutes of issue. Also config changes may take 15 miuntes . These times also must be taken into account. Assuming it takes 20 minutes to be aware that some issue happened and then necessary config change ,total RTO in this scenario will be 25 minutes.
Minimum RPO for a single AZ outage
As the database is configured as multi A-Z , synchronous replication exists from one AZ to another. This means the database is replicated without a time delay. In the case of a single AZ outage , there is no chance of data loss and RPO. Hence minimum RPO will be zero.
Minimum RPO for a single region outage
As the database is replicated in asynchronous mode from active region to standby, there will be a data loss in case of active region outage.  The amount of time that the replica is behind the source database is known as replica lag. Replica lag can vary based on the network latency between the source and destination Regions.Hence , RPO cannot be zero in this case and will be based on the replica lag.
